---
header:
  caption: 
  image: 
title: Talks
layout: docs
---

# Invited Presentations

## 	Invited Conference Presentations

1.	Karim ME (joint work with Epi-OER team) OER for Teaching Advanced Epidemiological Methods. 2024 OER Virtual Showcase and Poster Session, March 7, 2024. 
2.	Karim ME (joint work with Jeong D, Yusuf F, Ahmed S) OER for Effective Scientific Communication in Health Sciences. 2024 OER Virtual Showcase and Poster Session, March 7, 2024 [Invited Poster]. 
3.	Karim ME Reducing Residual Confounding Bias in Health Research: Evaluating High-Dimensional Propensity Score Algorithm and Machine Learning Extensions, Conference on Statistics and Data Science with Applications in Biology, Genetics, Public Health, and Finance, Thompson Rivers University, Kamloops, August 21-24, 2023 (URL).
4.	Karim ME How big data and machine learning can be applied to health research questions, and where it may be complementary or superior to traditional clinical trials, Research Ethics symposium topic ML/AI, Nov 3rd, 2022 
5.	Karim ME “Performance of Cross-Fit and Doubly Robust Estimators for Residual Confounding Control in Pharmacoepidemiologic Studies Utilizing Administrative Healthcare Databases”, Statistics Conference in Genomics, Pharmaceutical Science, and Health Data Science, August 15-17, 2022 University of Victoria, Victoria, BC, Canada. (URL).
6.	Karim ME (joint work with Mosquera LK, Hossain MB) “Finite Sample Properties of Inverse Probability of Adherence Weighted Estimator of the Per-protocol Effect for Sustained Treatment Strategies”, The Fifth ICSA-Canada Chapter Symposium, Banff, July 8-10, 2022.
7.	Karim ME “Machine learning and AI for causal inference from healthcare data”, 2nd annual Data Science and Health Conference, Vancouver, Nov 9th, 2021
8.	Karim ME (joint work with Tremlett H, Zhu F, Petkau, J, Kingwell, E) “Dealing with treatment-confounder feedback and sparse follow-up in longitudinal studies - an application of the marginal structural model in a multiple sclerosis cohort”; Invited session on ‘Novel methods and applications in the estimation of longitudinal effects’, Statistical Society of Canada Annual Meeting 2021, June 7-June11, 2021, Virtual 
9.	Karim ME (joint work with Tremlett H, Zhu F, Petkau, J, Kingwell, E) “Dealing with treatment-confounder feedback and sparse follow-up in longitudinal studies - an application of the marginal structural model in a multiple sclerosis cohort”, Invited Session - 7: Biostatistics and data science; 2nd International Conference on Applied Statistics 2019, Dhaka University, Bangladesh; December 27-29, 2019.
10.	Karim ME “Healthcare data analytics in the era of machine learning and artificial intelligence”, LifeSciences BC Access to Innovation, Vancouver Convention Centre West, Vancouver, Feb 5th, 2020. 
11.	Karim, M.E. “High-dimensional propensity score adjustment for analyzing electronic healthcare data: recent advances”, Statistical issues in administrative data, Banff International Research Station, Banff, Feb 2019.
12.	Karim ME (joint work with Pang, M.; Platt, R.) "Comparing approaches for Confounding Adjustment in Secondary Database Analyses: High-Dimensional Propensity Score versus two machine learning algorithms: Random Forest and Elastic Net", invited session on 'Statistical Methods to Improve Drug and Vaccine Safety Surveillance Using Big Healthcare Data', XXVIIIth International Biometric Conference, Victoria Convention Centre, Victoria, Canada 10 - 15 July, 2016.
13.	Karim ME (joint work with Gustafson, P.; Petkau, J.; Shirani, A.; Zhao, Y.; Kingwell, E.; van der Kop, M.; Oger, J.; UBC MS Clinic Neurologists.; Tremlett, Helen) "Causal inference tools for estimating the effect of beta-interferon exposure in delaying disease progression in a relapsing-remitting multiple sclerosis cohort data obtained from observational sources" 2013 endMS Conference in December 2013, St. Sauveur, Quebec. [Invited poster presentation]
14.	Karim ME (joint work with Gustafson, P) "Adjusting for Exposure Misclassification in Bayesian Hypothesis Testing in Case-Control Studies", The First International Conference on Theory and Applications of Statistics; Dhaka University, Bangladesh; December 26-28, 2010.

## Invited Research Seminar Presentations
1.	Karim ME “Rethinking Residual Confounding Bias Reduction: Why Vanilla hdPS Alone is No Longer Enough in the Era of Machine Learning”, Statistics and Biostatistics seminar series, University of Waterloo, April 26, 2023. (URL)
2.	Karim ME “Use of machine learning estimators in residual confounding control in pharmacoepidemiologic studies.”, Work in Progress Seminar, CHEOS, St. Paul’s Hospital (Hurlburt Auditorium), Dec 14th, 2022. (URL) 
3.	Karim ME (joint work with Pang, M.; Platt, R.) "Can We Train Machine Learning Methods to Outperform the High-dimensional Propensity Score Algorithm?", 2022 Sentinel Innovation and Methods Seminar Series, Webinar series for the FDA Sentinel Innovation Center, May 11, 2022, Virtual event. (URL) 
4.	Karim ME (joint work with Tremlett H; Zhu F; Petkau, J; Kingwell, E) “Dealing with treatment-confounder feedback and sparse follow-up in longitudinal studies - an application of the marginal structural model in a multiple sclerosis cohort”, Department of Epidemiology, University of Washington, May 4th, 2021 (URL)
5.	Karim ME “Causal inference in analyzing administrative healthcare data:  Can we integrate machine learning approaches within this framework?”, UBC Centre for Health Services and Policy Research, Feb 23, 2021
6.	Karim ME “Causal Inference from Large, Real-world and Complex Healthcare Data in the Era of Data Science”, UBC School of Population and Public Health, May 6th, 2020. 
7.	Karim, M. E. "Best practices of various propensity score methods in comparative effectiveness research", Biogen ALIGN meeting, Montreal, June 12, 2019.
8.	Karim ME (joint work with Pang, M.; Platt, R.) "Can We Train Machine Learning Methods to Outperform the High-dimensional Propensity Score Algorithm?", Department of Community Health Sciences & George and Fay Yee Centre for Healthcare Innovation, Max Rady College of Medicine, Rady Faculty of Health Sciences, University of Manitoba, Winnipeg, May 9, 2019.
9.	Karim ME (joint work with Pang, M.; Platt, R.) "Can We Train Machine Learning Methods to Outperform the High-dimensional Propensity Score Algorithm?", Biogen Symposium on Statistical Methods in Multiple Sclerosis, Cambridge, Massachusetts. November 2018.
10.	Karim ME (joint work with Pang, M.; Platt, R.) "Can We Train Machine Learning Methods to Outperform the High-dimensional Propensity Score Algorithm?", Departmental Seminar Series, Department of Statistics & Actuarial Science, Simon Fraser University, April 6, 2018
11.	Karim ME (joint work with Pang, M.; Platt, R.) "Can We Train Machine Learning Methods to Outperform the High-dimensional Propensity Score Algorithm?", Research seminar, Institute of Statistical Research and Training, University of Dhaka, Bangladesh, June 6th, 2018
12.	Karim, M. E. "Statistical Learning Approaches and Health Administrative Data", Big Data and Depression Care, St. Paul’s Hospital, Vancouver, 27 March 2018.
13.	Karim, M. E. "Comparing approaches for Confounding Adjustment in Secondary Database Analyses: High-Dimensional Propensity Score versus two machine learning algorithms", Drug Safety and Effectiveness Cross-Disciplinary Training  / Drug Safety and Effectiveness Network (DSECT/DSEN) Monthly Seminar Series, Online Seminar, Mar 23, 2017. (100 registered nationwide, which is the maximum limit accommodated by the seminar organizers.)
14.	Karim, M.E. “Application of Machine Learning Techniques to Improve Causal Inference in Observational Studies.”, Seminar at School of population and public health, UBC, April 21, 2017.
15.	Karim, M. E. “Automated Confounding Control in Comparative Effectiveness Research: Help or Hype?” Work in Progress Seminar, Hurlburt Auditorium, St. Paul's Hospital, Vancouver, April 12, 2017.
16.	Karim ME (2017) "Marginal Structural Models in Multiple Sclerosis: Recent Developments and Suitable Alternatives", Biogen Symposium on Statistical Methods in Multiple Sclerosis, Cambridge, Massachusetts. November 2017.
17.	Karim ME (joint work with Gustafson, P.; Petkau, J.; Tremlett, H.; The BeAMS study group) "Comparison of Statistical Approaches Dealing with Immortal Time Bias in Drug Effectiveness Studies": January 19, 2016, Biostatistics seminar, Department of Epidemiology, Biostatistics and Occupational Health, McGill University, Montreal, QC.
18.	Karim ME (joint work with Gustafson, P.; Petkau, J.; Tremlett, H.; The BeAMS study group) "Comparison of Statistical Approaches Dealing with Immortal Time Bias in Drug Effectiveness Studies", February 8, 2016, Causal inference journal club, Faculté de pharmacie, Université de Montréal, Montreal, QC.
19.	Karim ME (joint work with Gustafson, P.; Petkau, J.; Tremlett, H.; The BeAMS study group) "Comparison of Statistical Approaches Dealing with Immortal Time Bias in Drug Effectiveness Studies", March 8, 2016, Epidemiology seminar, Centre for Clinical Epidemiology Jewish General Hospital, Lady Davis Research Institute, Montreal, QC.
20.	Karim ME (joint work with Gustafson, P.; Petkau, J.; Tremlett, H.; The BeAMS study group) "Comparison of Statistical Approaches Dealing with Immortal Time Bias in Drug Effectiveness Studies", June 30, 2016, Department seminar, Landmark Center, Harvard Medical School & Harvard Pilgrim Health Care Institute, Boston, MA.
21.	Karim ME. “Application of Propensity Scores in Epidemiology”, December 2010, Institute of Statistical Research and Training Seminar, University of Dhaka, Bangladesh.
22.	Karim ME (joint work with Rahman, P.K. and Matsui, N. and Ikemoto, Y.). “Livelihoods of Chronically Poor in Rural Bangladesh”. International Workshop on “Chronic  Poor in Bangladesh”. 17-19 March 2007, The Institute of Oriental Culture, University of Tokyo, Japan.

## Invited Presentations to Specific Research Groups

1.	Karim ME (joint work with Frank HA, Tremlett H, Marrie RA, Lix L, McKay K, Zhu F, Yusuf F.) Development of MS-CSI Score. MS Canada - BC Volunteer Summit; November 24, 2023, UBC Vancouver
2.	Karim, M. E. “Valid Causal Effect Estimates with Machine Learning Algorithms”, Causal Inference Journal Club Meeting, UBC Department of Statistics, 16th Feb, 2021. 
3.	Karim, M. E. “Deep learning-based propensity scores in large-scale study”, Causal Inference Journal Club Meeting, UBC Department of Statistics, 23rd March, 2021.
4.	Karim, M. E. “Mediation analysis using administrative data”, BC-CDC, Vancouver, Oct 16, 2019
5.	Karim, M. E. “Confounder selection principles: Statistical and epidemiologic considerations”, Special seminar session on Epidemiologic Methodology, Institute of Statistical Research and Training, University of Dhaka, Bangladesh, Dec 26th, 2019
6.	Karim, M. E. “Confounder selection principles: Statistical and epidemiologic considerations”, Epidemiology methods group meeting, VGH Eye Care Center, Vancouver, Oct 2nd, 2019
7.	Karim, M. E. “Confounder selection principles: Statistical and epidemiologic considerations”, Stats group meeting, St. Paul's Hospital, Vancouver, Oct 7th, 2019
8.	Karim, M. E. “Navigating complex survey data analysis for health research”, Statistics group seminar, St Paul’s Hospital, Vancouver, 10 March 2019.
9.	Karim, M. E. "Propensity score matching in presence of immortal time bias" November 2013, Brain Research Centre conference centre, Western Pacific endMS Research & Training Centre, UBC Hospital, Vancouver.
10.	Karim, M. E. "How to estimate beta-interferon treatment effectiveness in MS using some fancy modelling", September 2011, Pharmacoepidemiology in MS Research Group (PiMS), Brain Research Centre conference centre, UBC Hospital, Vancouver.

## Other Presentations

### Contributed Conference Presentations (Conference presentations based on accepted abstracts)
1.	Karim ME (joint work with Hossain MB, Zheng C). Determinants of Healthy Aging: The Influence of Race, Sex, and Early Smoking Onset – A Two-Decade Analysis from NHANES Data. Aging Better Together Symposium; November 19-20, 2023, UBC Vancouver.
2.	Karim ME. Reducing residual confounding bias via machine learning estimators in pharmacoepidemiologic studies. Joint Statistical meetings, Toronto, August 9, 2023.
3.	Karim ME (joint work with Mondol MH) Guideline for Choosing the Number of Splits for Double Cross-fit Targeted Maximum Likelihood Estimators.” Annual Meeting of the Statistical Society of Canada, Ottawa, May, 2023
4.	Karim ME (joint work with Pellegrini F, Platt RW, Simoneau G, Rouette J and Moor C) The Use and Quality of Reporting of Propensity Score Methods in Multiple Sclerosis Literature, 2023 endMS Conference Scientific Advisory Committee. Dec 3-6, 2023 Toronto [poster presentation].
5.	Karim ME (joint work with Hossain MB) “Implications of choosing different imputation methods while inferring about per-protocol effects of sustained treatment strategies”, ESPACOMP 2021 Conference, Nov 8-19, Virtual event. 
6.	Karim ME (joint work with Tremlett H; Zhu F; Petkau, J; Kingwell, E) “Dealing with treatment-confounder feedback and sparse follow-up in longitudinal studies - an application of the marginal structural model in a multiple sclerosis cohort”, Topic-contributed paper session, Novel perspectives on the estimation of longitudinal effects; Joint Statistical meetings, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania; August 1-6, 2020 (online).
7.	Karim ME (joint work with Tremlett H; Zhu F; Petkau, J; Kingwell, E) “Dealing with treatment-confounder feedback and sparse follow-up in longitudinal studies - an application of the marginal structural model in a multiple sclerosis cohort”, Society of Epidemiologic research (SER) annual meeting, December 15 – 18, 2020, Boston (Online)
8.	Karim ME (joint work with Pellegrini F, Platt RW, Simoneau G, Rouette J, de Moor K) The Use And Quality Of Reporting Of Propensity Score Methods In Multiple Sclerosis Literature; ICPE All Access (ICPE 2020 Berlin Virtual Event), September 16-17, 2020 (audio)
9.	Karim ME (joint work with Atiquzzaman M.) Mediating role of pain-medication in the increased risk of cardiovascular diseases among Canadian osteoarthritis patients, International Society for Clinical Biostatistics (ISCB) Annual Conference, July 2019 Leuven, Belgium [poster presentation].
10.	Karim, M. E. (joint work with Pang, M.; Platt, R.) "Can We Train Machine Learning Methods to Outperform the High-dimensional Propensity Score Algorithm?", Section on Statistics in Epidemiology, Joint Statistical Meetings, August 1, 2018.
11.	Karim, M. E. (joint work with Pang, M.; Platt, R.) "Can We Train Machine Learning Methods to Outperform the High-dimensional Propensity Score Algorithm?", International Society for Clinical Biostatistics (ISCB) Annual Conference, August 2018 Melbourne, Australia
12.	Karim, M. E. (joint work with Pang, M.; Platt, R.) "Can We Train Machine Learning Methods to Outperform the High-dimensional Propensity Score Algorithm?", Annual Meeting of the Statistical Society of Canada, Calgary, May, 2019
13.	Karim, M. E. (joint work with Pang, M.; Platt, R.) "Comparing approaches for Confounding Adjustment in Secondary Database Analyses: High-Dimensional Propensity Score versus two machine learning algorithms: Random Forest and Elastic Net", International Society for Clinical Biostatistics (ISCB) Annual Conference, 21-25 Aug 2016 Birmingham, UK.
14.	Karim, M. E. (joint work with Platt, R., Tremlett, H.; The BeAMS study group) "Estimating Inverse Probability Weights using Super Learner when Weight-Model Specification is Unknown in a Marginal Structural Cox Model Context: An Application to Multiple Sclerosis", session on "Biostatistics Applications", Annual Meeting of the Statistical Society of Canada, Brock University, St. Catharines, May 29 - June 1, 2016.
15.	Karim, M. E. (joint work with Platt, R., Tremlett, H.; The BeAMS study group) "Estimating Inverse Probability Weights using Super Learner when Weight-Model Specification is Unknown in a Marginal Structural Cox Model Context: An Application to Multiple Sclerosis",XXVIIIth International Biometric Conference, Victoria Convention Centre, Victoria, Canada 10 - 15 July, 2016.
16.	Karim, M. E. (joint work with Platt, R., Tremlett, H.; The BeAMS study group) "Estimating Inverse Probability Weights using Super Learner when Weight-Model Specification is Unknown in a Marginal Structural Cox Model Context: An Application to Multiple Sclerosis", International Society for Clinical Biostatistics (ISCB), Annual Conference, 9-13 July 2017 Vigo, Spain.
17.	Karim, M. E. (joint work with Gustafson, P.; Petkau, J.; Tremlett, H.; The BeAMS study group) "Comparison of Statistical Approaches Dealing with Immortal Time Bias in Drug Effectiveness Studies", session on "Biostatistics in Action 1", Annual Meeting of the Statistical Society of Canada, Dalhousie University, Halifax, Nova Scotia, June 14-17, 2015.
18.	Karim, M. E. (joint work with Petkau, J.; Gustafson, P.; Tremlett, H.; The BeAMS study group) "The Performance of Statistical Learning Approaches to Construct Inverse Probability Weights in Marginal Structural Cox Models: A Simulation-based Comparison", The 3rd annual Statistical Society of Canada Student Conference, Dalhousie University, Halifax, Nova Scotia, June 13, 2015.
19.	Karim, M. E. (joint work with Gustafson, P.; Petkau, J.;  Shirani, A.;  Zhao, Y.;  Kingwell, E.;  van der Kop, M.; Oger, J.; Tremlett, H.) "Estimating the effect of beta-interferon exposure in delaying disease progression in relapsing-remitting multiple sclerosis patients using causal inference tools", Session on 'Novel Methods for Analysis of Survival and Longitudinal Data', Section on Statistics in Epidemiology, 2014 Joint Statistical Meetings, August 2-7, 2014.
20.	Karim, M. E. (joint work with Gustafson, P.; Petkau, J.;  Shirani, A.;  Zhao, Y.;  Kingwell, E.;  van der Kop, M.; Oger, J.; Tremlett, H.) "Logrank tests with the inverse probability of treatment weighting to assess the impact of beta-interferon treatments in delaying disability progression in multiple sclerosis", Session on 'Causal Methods and Applications in Variable Selection, Genetics, Mediation and Survival Analysis', Section on Statistics in Epidemiology, 2013 Joint Statistical Meetings, August 3-8, 2013.
21.	Karim, M. E. (joint work with Gustafson, P.; Petkau, J.; Shirani, A.; Zhao, Y.; Kingwell, E.; van der Kop, M.; Oger, J.; Tremlett, H.) "A simulation study of methods used to reduce variability in the inverse probability of treatment weights for marginal structural Cox models", Annual Meeting of the Statistical Society of Canada, University of Alberta, Edmonton, Alberta, May 26-29, 2013.
22.	Karim, M. E. (joint work with Gustafson, P.; Petkau, J.;  Shirani, A.;  Zhao, Y.;  Kingwell, E.; Evans, C.; van der Kop, M.;  Oger, J.; Tremlett, H.) "Comparing the direct and approximate approaches to implement marginal structural Cox models: An Application to Multiple Sclerosis", Inaugural Statistical Society of Canada Student Conference, University of Alberta, Edmonton, Alberta, May 25, 2013.
23.	Karim, M. E. “Reverse-engineering randomization!”, Joint UBC/SFU, Department of Statistics, University of British Columbia, March  2013.
24.	Karim, M. E. (joint work with Gustafson, P.; Petkau, J.;  Zhao, Y.; Shirani, A.; Evans, C.; Kingwell, E.; van der Kop, M.; Tremlett, H.) "A simulation study of the performance of the prescription time-distribution matching method to address immortal time bias", Session on 'Causal Inference in Epidemiology', Section on Statistics in Epidemiology, 2012 Joint Statistical Meetings, San Diego, July 28-August 2, 2012.
25.	Karim, M. E. (joint work with Gustafson, P.; Petkau, J.) "Generating survival data for fitting marginal structural Cox models using Stata", Stata Conference, San Diego, July 26–27, 2012.
26.	Karim, M. E. “A Path to Causal Inference”, Joint UBC/SFU, Department of Statistics and Actuarial Science, Simon Fraser University, September 2011.
27.	Karim, M. E. (joint work with Gustafson, P.; Petkau, J.; Shirani, A.; van der Kop, M.; Kingwell, E.; Zhao, Y.; Evans, C.; Tremlett, H.) "Marginal Structural Models for Investigating Long-Term Effectiveness of a Time-Dependent Treatment: An Application to Multiple Sclerosis", Session on 'Innovative Approaches for Analyzing Repeated Measures Data', Section on Statistics in Epidemiology, 2011 Joint Statistical Meetings, Miami, Florida; July 31st, 2011.

### Conference Presentations and Posters by Students/Trainees [Presenting trainee is marked by *; Conference presentations based on accepted abstracts]
1.	Yusuf FLA*, Karim ME, Sutherland JM, Zhu F, Zhao Y, Marrie RA, Tremlett H. Heterogeneity in Health Care Pathways before a First Demyelinating Event or Multiple Sclerosis Symptom Onset: A Multichannel State Sequence Analysis. ACTRIMS Forum 2024; February 29 – March 2. West Palm Beach, Florida.
2.	Jeong D*, Wong S, Makuza JD, Velásquez García HA, Adu PA, Bartlett SR, Yoshida EM, Ramji A, Binka M, Karim ME, Manges AR, Yu A, Alvarez M, Krajden M, Janjua NZ. Ethnic disparity in mortality related to extrahepatic manifestations among people with chronic HCV infection: a large, linked administrative population-based study in British Columbia, Canada. The Canadian Liver Meeting, Toronto ON, Canada, March 2024. (Accepted as oral presentation; conference committee has selected this poster as one of the CanHepC poster of distinction for Population Health research)
3.	Frank HA*, Tremlett H, Marrie RA, Lix L, McKay K, Zhu F, Yusuf F, Karim ME. The impact of comorbidities on aging outcomes in the multiple sclerosis population: a rapid review. Aging Better Together Symposium; November 19-20, 2023, UBC Vancouver
4.	Frank HA* (joint work with Tremlett H, Marrie RA, Lix L, McKay K, Zhu F, Yusuf F, Karim ME). Development of a Multiple Sclerosis-Specific Comorbidity Index. UBC Centre for Health Services & Policy Research (CHSPR) Student Seminar; April 5, 2023, UBC Vancouver
5.	Frank HA* (joint work with Tremlett H, Marrie RA, Lix L, Karim ME) Methods for a rapid review of comorbidities impacting time to treatment initiation, disability progression, and death in people with multiple sclerosis. Data Science in Epidemiology Seminar Series; October 12, 2023, SPPH, UBC Vancouver
6.	Romanowski K*, Law MR, Karim ME, Campbell JR, Hossain MB, Gilbert M, Cook VJ, Johnston JC. Healthcare utilization after respiratory tuberculosis: a controlled interrupted time series analysis. 27 th Annual North American TB Conference; February 22-25, 2023. Vancouver, Canada.
7.	Romanowski K*, Law MR, Karim ME, Campbell JR, Hossain MB, Gilbert M, Cook VJ, Johnston JC. Healthcare utilization after respiratory tuberculosis. BC Centre for Disease Control Research Week; October 10 – 12, 2023. Vancouver, Canada
8.	Mondol MM* (joint work with Karim ME, Nosyk B) Opioid agonist treatment discontinuation and its reversion strategies in British Columbia, Canada: A population-based observational study protocol. Data Science in Epidemiology Seminar Series, SPPH, UBC. December 15, 2023.
9.	Hossain MB*, Johnston JC, Wong H, Sadatsafavi M, Cook VJ, Karim ME. Risk of cardiovascular disease associated with latent tuberculosis infection. 27th Annual Conference of the Union-North America Region; 22-25 Feb 2023, Vancouver, Canada
10.	Hossain MB*, Wong H, Cook VJ, Johnston JC, Sadatsafavi M, Karim ME. Performance of high-dimensional disease risk scores in risk prediction modelling. BC Centre for Disease Control Research Symposium 2023; 10 Oct 2023, Vancouver, Canada
11.	Hossain MB*, Wong H, Sadatsafavi M, Cook VJ, Johnston JC, Karim ME. Comparing nested case-control and survival analysis in addressing immortal time bias in observation studies. Centre for Health Services and Policy Research Journal Club/Work in Progress Seminar; 19 April 2023, Vancouver, Canada
12.	Hossain MB*, Karim ME. A closed testing procedure to select an appropriate method for updating prediction models. Data Science in Epidemiology Seminar Series; SPPH, UBC, 17 Aug 2023, Vancouver, Canada.
13.	Hossain MB*, Karim ME. Analytic dataset from health administrative databases: an application to tuberculosis research. Centre for Health Services and Policy Research Seminar; 11 October 2023, Vancouver, Canada
14.	Jeong D, Wong S, Karim ME, Manges AR, Velásquez García HA, Binka M, Bartlett SR, Darvishian M, Adu PA, Makuza JD, Samji H, Yu A, Alvarez M, Janjua NZ. Effect of DAA treatment on extrahepatic manifestations incidence: a population-based study in British Columbia, Canada [Poster Presentation]. Canadian Liver Meeting, Halifax NS, Canada, March 2023.
15.	Jeong D*, Wong S, Makuza JD, Velásquez García HA, Adu PA, Bartlett SR, Yoshida EM, Ramji A, Binka M, Karim ME, Manges AR, Yu A, Alvarez M, Krajden M, Janjua NZ. Ethnic disparity in mortality related to extrahepatic manifestations among people with chronic HCV infection: a large, linked administrative population-based study in British Columbia, Canada. BCCDC Research Week, Vancouver BC, October 2023.
16.	Basham CA* (joint work with Karim ME et al.). (2022). Post- Tuberculosis Depression Risk and the Role of Hospital Length of Stay: A Population-Based Cohort Study of People Immigrating to British Columbia, Canada, 1985-2015.  26th Annual TB Conference: The International Union Against TB and Lung Disease - North America Region. Vancouver, Canada.
17.	Hossain MB* (joint work with Karim ME et al.) Assessing the risk of cardiovascular disease due to latent tuberculosis infection among foreign-born Canadians in British Columbia, Canada, 1985-2019: a machine learning approach. Aug 2022. Statistics Conference in Genomics, Pharmaceutical Science, and Health Data Science, Victoria, Canada.
18.	Fardowsa L.A.Y (joint work with Karim ME et al.) Sex and Age Differences in the Multiple Sclerosis Prodrome. ACTRIMS Young Scientist Summit. April 2022. Charleston, South Carolina.
19.	Frank, HA * (joint work with Karim ME). Sensitivity of Scalable Collaborative Targeted Maximum Likelihood Estimation (SC-TMLE) to the Specified Covariate Pre- Ordering in Right Heart Catheterization. The tenth annual Canadian Statistics Student Conference (Virtual conference), Ottawa, Canada; 28 May 2022
20.	Yusuf FLA* (joint work with Karim ME et al.) Sex and Age Differences in the Multiple Sclerosis Prodrome. ECTRIMS. October 2022. Amsterdam, The Netherlands.
21.	Jeong D* (joint work with Karim ME et al.) Effect of DAA treatment on extrahepatic manifestations incidence: a population-based study in British Columbia, Canada. The Liver Meeting, American Association for the Study of Liver Diseases. November 2022. Washington DC, US.
22.	Gill R* (joint work with Karim ME et al.) Early Childhood Poverty and School Readiness in British Columbia, Canada: Effect Modification by Immigration Background. DOHaD World Congress. August 2022. Vancouver, BC, Canada.
23.	McLeod KE* (joint work with Karim ME et al.)  Healthcare services and opportunities for opioid overdose prevention. International Committee of the Red Cross, 1st World Conference on Health in Detention. Geneva, Switzerland. June 2022
24.	McLeod KE* (joint work with Karim ME et al.) Community outpatient healthcare and risk of overdose after release in British Columbia, Canada. Sixth International Conference on Law Enforcement and Public Health: Defying Boundaries. March 25, 2021. Philadelphia, USA (Virtual). March 2021
25.	Basham CA* (joint work with Karim ME et al.). (2021). TB-Associated Depression Risk: A Population-Based Cohort Study of Immigrants to British Columbia, Canada, 1985-2015.  52nd World Conference on Lung Health, France.
26.	Jeong D* (joint work with Karim ME et al.) Benefits of DAA treatment on mortality related to extrahepatic manifestations among people who inject drugs: a population-based study in British Columbia, Canada. [e-Poster Presentation]. The Liver Meeting, American Association for the Study of Liver Diseases. November 2021. Virtual Meeting.
27.	Jeong D* (joint work with Karim ME et al.) Impact of direct-acting antiviral treatment on mortality related to extrahepatic manifestations: findings from a large population-based cohort in British Columbia, Canada. The 9th International Conference on Health and Hepatitis Care in Substance Users. October 2021. Virtual Meeting.
28.	Jeong D* (joint work with Karim ME et al.) Impact of direct-acting antiviral treatment on mortality related to extrahepatic manifestations: findings from a large population-based cohort in British Columbia, Canada. Canadian Liver Meeting, North American Hepatitis Elimination Summit. May 2021. Virtual Meeting.
29.	Hossain MB* (joint work with Karim ME) Addressing differential medication non-adherence in pragmatic trials with point-treatment settings: a simulation study. Oct 2021. 25th ESPACOMP Conference (Virtual conference), Seraing, Belgium.
30.	Hossain MB* (joint work with Karim ME). Comparing methods to address sparse follow-up issues in estimating per-protocol effects in pragmatic clinical trials: a simulation study. May 2021. The ninth annual Canadian Statistics Student Conference (Virtual conference), Ottawa, Canada.
31.	Hossain MB * (joint work with Karim ME) “Performance of statistical methods to address treatment non-adherence in pragmatic clinical trials with point-treatment settings: a simulation study”. Canadian Statistics Student Conference 2021, (online); June 5, 2021. 
32.	Hossain MB * (joint work with Karim ME) “Performance of statistical methods to address treatment non-adherence in pragmatic clinical trials with point-treatment settings: a simulation study”, 2021 SORA-TABA Annual Workshop & DLSPH Biostatistics Research Day, May 27-28, 2021, Online. 
33.	Hossain MB* (joint work with Karim ME). Comparing statistical methods in estimating per-protocol effects to address sparse follow-up issue in pragmatic clinical trials with treatment non-adherence. May 2021. 6th Canadian Conference in Applied Statistics (Virtual conference), Montreal, Canada.
34.	Kerai S.* (joint work with Karim ME & Oberle, E.) Does having positive coping skills mediate the relationship between sense of community belonging and positive mental health among youth? Findings from a Canadian population-based Survey, Society for Epidemiologic Research Annual Meeting, San Diego, CL, United States, June 22-25, 2021, Online. 
35.	Sweeney Magee M. * (joint work with Gotay C, Telford J, Karim ME & Dummer T) Cancer diagnosis and health behaviour change; a prospective study from the BC Generations Project. Oral presentation, The Canadian Centre for Applied Research in Cancer Control annual conference, May 17-18, 2021 (online)
36.	Hossain MB * (joint work with Karim ME) Comparison of statistical methods to address treatment nonadherence in pragmatic trials with only baseline covariate-measurements. 24th ESPACOMP: International Society for Medication Adherence Conference (Virtual conference), Seraing, Belgium; 10 Nov 2020.
37.	Basham CA* (joint work with Karim ME et al.). (2020). Post-tuberculosis airway disease: a population-based cohort study of people immigrating to British Columbia, Canada, 1985-2015. BCCDC Research Days, Vancouver, Canada.
38.	Hossain MB* (joint work with Karim ME) Statistical approaches to deal with treatment nonadherence in the pragmatic trial context. Canadian Statistics Student Conference 2020 (Virtual conference), Ottawa, Canada; 30 May 2020.
39.	Hossain MB * (joint work with Karim ME) Review of statistical methods to address treatment nonadherence in the pragmatic trial context. 41st Annual Conference of the International Society for Clinical Biostatistics (ISCB), Kraków, Poland, August 18, 2020 [RP3.28]
40.	Mosquera LK* (joint work with Karim ME) Properties of Adjusted Per-Protocol Effect Estimators to Address Treatment Non-Adherence in Pragmatic Trials. 41st Annual Conference of the International Society for Clinical Biostatistics (ISCB), Kraków, Poland, August 18, 2020 [RP3.26]
41.	Basham CA * (joint work with Karim ME, Cook VJ, Patrick DM, Johnston JC.) Depression risk in people diagnosed with tuberculosis and the mediating role of hospital length of stay: a causal inference study from British Columbia, Canada, 1985-2015, International Union Against Tuberculosis and Lung Disease, October 21-24, 2020; Seville Spain 
42.	Basham CA * (joint work with Karim ME, Cook VJ, Patrick DM, Johnston JC.) Tuberculosis (TB) patients at increased risk of non-TB mortality: a population-based survival analysis of linked immigration and vital statistics data in British Columbia, Canada, 1985-2015. In: The International Union Against Tuberculosis and Lung Disease - North America Region; 24th Annual TB Conference; February 27-29, 2020; Chicago, IL.  Vancouver, BC: The Union-NAR / BC Lung Association; 2020. 
43.	Jeong D* (joint work with Wong S., Karim ME., Butt ZA., Binka M., Adu P., Wilton J., Abdia Y., Yu A., Alvarez M., Bartlett S., Clementi E., Pearce M., Krajden M., Janjua N.) Ethnic disparities in the risk of hepatitis C virus-related diabetes in a large population-based cohort in Canada. 2020 International Liver Congress; August 2020, London, United Kingdom 
44.	Jeong D* (joint work with Wong S., Karim ME., Butt ZA., Binka M., Adu P., Wilton J., Abdia Y., Yu A., Alvarez M., Bartlett S., Clementi E., Pearce M., Krajden M., Janjua N.) Ethnic disparities in the risk of hepatitis C virus-related diabetes in a large population-based cohort in Canada, Canadian Liver Meeting; February 27 - March 1, 2020 in Montreal, Canada (ID CLMHCV-1054)
45.	Mosquera LK* (joint work with Karim ME) Comparing instrumental variable and naive methods for estimating the causal effect of treatment in pragmatic trials with non-compliance, The 2019 Atlantic Causal Inference Conference (ACIC), Montreal, May, 2019
46.	Sanders E* (joint work with Gustafson P, Karim ME) Incorporating Partial Adherence into the Principal Stratification Analysis Framework, Annual Meeting of the Statistical Society of Canada, Calgary, May, 2019.
47.	Sanders E* (joint work with Gustafson P, Karim ME) Incorporating Partial Adherence into the Principal Stratification Analysis Framework, Statistics Seminar, Department of Statistics, University of British Columbia, August 15, 2019.
48.	Ouyang D* (joint work with Wong H, Gustafson P, Karim ME) Estimating and using the attained power distribution to ensure we get the trial power we expect. 2019 Joint Statistical Meetings – Speed Presentation #304799, July 27 – August 1, 2019 Colorado  (URL) (Last accessed: April 7, 2020)
49.	Liu P* (joint work with Quinn R, Ronksley P, Bello A, Hemmelgarn B, Quan H, Tonelli M, Manns B, Weaver R, Tam-Tham H, Karim ME, Ravani P) People with chronic kidney disease: Who to refer, when to refer, and the impact on outcomes. Kidney Health Strategic Clinical Network, July 20, 2017, Edmonton, Alberta. (URL) (last accessed: 02 Jan, 2020)

### Conference Presentations and Posters by Co-authors [Presenting author (collaborator) is marked by *; Conference presentations based on accepted abstracts]
1.	Manouchehrinia A* (joint work with Larsson H, Karim ME, Huang J, Kockum I, Olsson T). Clinical, life-style and genetic determinants of response to natalizumab: a 13-year nationwide phase IV study. ePoster, 37th Congress of ECTRIMS, 13 - 15 October 2021.
2.	Binka M* (Join work with Abdia Y, Wilton J, Butt JA, Darvishian MA, Wong S, Yu A, Jeong D, Bartlett S, Clementi E, Adu P, Pearce M, Alvarez M, Karim ME, Yoshida E,  Ramji A,  Wong J, Krajden M,  Janjua N) All-cause and liver-related mortality following entecavir, tenofovir disoproxil fumarate or lamivudine therapy among treatment-naïve chronic hepatitis B patients in British Columbia, Canada, The Digital International Liver Congress 2020, 27–29 August 2020
3.	Cordeiro J, et al. (2019) Using Home-Telemonitoring to Support COPD patient care: The nursing experience. BC Quality Forum, February 27-28th.
4.	Ho K* (joint work with Cordeiro J, Bhullar A, Abu-Laban R, Christenson J, Harps H, Hawkins N, Karim ME, Kim-Sing C, McGavin C, Mitton C, Smith T, Novak-Lauscher H, on behalf of the TEC4Home Innovation Community). TEC4Home Heart Failure: Using home telemonitoring to decrease ED readmissions and clinical flow.CAEP 2018
5.	Puyat J* (joint work with Karim ME, Patten S, Evans C, Anis A.). Using big data analytics to close the quality gap in depression care. 2017 Western Canadian Universities Big Data Health Conference, Poster
6.	Ho K* (joint work with Novak LH, Cordeiro J, Mitton C, Wong H, Karim ME, Bhullar A, TEC4Home Health Innovation Community). TEC4Home: Tele-monitoring to support the transition of Heart Failure patient care from hospital to home. Putting Patients First: Partnerships for Better Health Research, BC SUPPORT Unit provincial conference, Vancouver, BC, Nov 9th, 2017. 
7.	Shirani A* (joint work with Zhao Y, Karim ME, Petkau J, Gustafson P, Evans C, Kingwell E, van der Kop M, Oger J, UBC MS Clinic Neurologists, Tremlett H) Investigation of heterogeneity in the association between interferon beta and disability progression in multiple sclerosis: an observational study from British Columbia, Canada. Tools for detecting therapeutic response, ECTRIMS/RIMS meeting, Copenhagen, Denmark 2 5 October 2013. (last accessed: 02 Jan, 2020)
8.	Shirani A* (joint work with Zhao Y, Karim ME, Evans C, Kingwell E, van der Kop M, Oger J, Petkau J, Gustafson P, Tremlett H). Association Between Use of Interferon Beta and Progression of Disability in Patients with Relapsing-Remitting Multiple Sclerosis. 2012 Symposium of the European Charcot Foundation. 29 Nov - 1 Dec, Marbella, Spain.

### Presentations at Student Seminars
1.	Karim, M. E. "Interaction in theory and in practice", Data Science in Epidemiology Seminar Series, School of Population and Public Health, University of British Columbia, Feb 21, 2023.
2.	Karim, M. E. "Causal Inference Approaches for Dealing with Time-dependent Confounding in Longitudinal Studies, with Applications to Multiple Sclerosis Research", Biostatistical Research Group Seminar Series, Department of Statistics, University of British Columbia, December, 2014.
3.	Karim, M. E. “Causal Inference from Observational Data using Propensity Scores”, Graduate Students Seminar Series, Department of Statistics, University of British Columbia, March, 2011. 
4.	Karim, M. E. “Estimating the causal effect of a treatment while time-dependent confounding is present: An illustration of the sequential Cox approach”, Graduate Students Seminar Series, Department of Statistics, University of British Columbia, September, 2011.
5.	Karim, M. E. "Evaluating the Performance of Hypothesis Testing in Case-Control Studies with Exposure Misclassification, using Frequentist and Bayesian Techniques", Seminar Series, Department of Statistics, University of British Columbia, June, 2009. 
6.	Karim, M. E. “Comparisons of Different Frailty Models: A Simulation Study”, Thesis defense, Institute of Statistical Research and Training, University of Dhaka, Bangladesh, August, 2007.
7.	Karim, M. E. "Modeling the Daily Rainfall Occurrence: A stochastic approach”, Project presentation, Institute of Statistical Research and Training, University of Dhaka, Bangladesh, 2005.
